Everybody has to face bad days in their life. Some face ailments, some face fears, some face poverty, some face helplessness etc etc. No one can escape from it. It is a rule of life. Two things always combines together like joy and sadness, laugh and cry, health and illness, profit and loss, morning and night, confidence and inferiority complex, victory and failure likewise good days and bad days.
Top of the tide
Wu Jun
Wu Jun, a researcher of Google, wrote the IT history record online, which tells the rise and fall of at &amp; T, IBM, jobs, apple, Intel and other flagship companies in the IT industry.
Chapter one the afterglow of Empire (at &amp; T)
Editor's note: when Wu Jun told me that he wanted to write this series of "the top of the wave", he was surprised and moved. It's amazing because in my impression, Wu Jun is a researcher of Google, the author of "the beauty of mathematics" and a scientist. It's hard to imagine that he also has his own observation on the business field. Moved because received the first article, read down, feel these stories compiled a book is not too much! But he gave us this "little" blackboard newspaper. Read the article benefited a lot, so can't wait to share with you, hope you can like it. At the same time, we should also use this short text to express our gratitude to Wu Jun. Finally, because the length of the article is relatively long, it can only be published in several times. In order to help you read and find it conveniently, we separately listed the column "the top of the tide" in order to solve the problems caused by the publication in several times.
Over the past 100 years, there have always been some companies that are very lucky, consciously or unconsciously standing on the wave of technological revolution. Once in that position, even if you don't do anything, you can drift forward smoothly with the waves for a decade or more. In the past ten years, they represent the wave of science and technology, until the coming of the next wave.
Since one hundred years ago, at &amp; T, IBM, apple, Intel, Microsoft, Cisco, Yahoo and Google have been pushed to the top of the wave. Although they come from different fields, some of them have declined or are declining, they have been extremely brilliant. They used to be global empires, ruling their industries.
In the eyes of outsiders, people large and small in these companies are the lucky ones of the times. Because, although for a company, catching up with a wave can not guarantee its long-term prosperity; However, it is enough for a person to catch up with such a wave in his life. For a young man, the most fortunate thing is to catch up with the tide. It's hard to predict the future, but looking at the past and the present, we may be able to see some truth. I would like to take advantage of the space of Google blackboard to share with you the people and things I have seen and heard over the years. I'd like to talk about my views on each wave, on each of the companies mentioned above, and on the key people among them. In today's extremely commercialized era, the progress of science and technology is inseparable from business opportunities. Therefore, I would also like to mention the venture capital companies that indirectly affect the technology wave, such as KPCB and Sequoia, as well as the investment banks that have supported technology for a century, such as Goldman Sachs.
Chapter one the afterglow of Empire (at &amp; T)
1. Century Empire
The picture above is a sunset shot in Florham Park, New Jersey, in the 1990s. Frenchham Park covers an area of more than ten square kilometers, mostly grassland and forest. In the middle of the forest, it is a medium-sized industrial park near the lake - the most beautiful industrial park I have ever seen. There, swans can be seen wandering leisurely in the lake every day, and wild deer can be seen from time to time. It used to be the property of Exxon Mobil, an oil giant. In 1996, a new owner, at &amp; T laboratory, came here. In 1995, the booming at &amp; T company was reorganized and split into at &amp; T, Lucent and NCR. At &amp; T's world-famous scientific research institution, Bell laboratory, has also been divided into two parts. Lucent won half the names of research institutions and Bell Labs. Half of the laboratories under at &amp; T formed the at &amp; T Laboratory (later renamed Shannon laboratory) and moved from Murray hills to frenchham park. There, the at &amp; T laboratory, where 11 Nobel laureates have been awarded, is like a star in its old age, bursting out with a very strong but final brilliance, and then fading rapidly. Ten years later, at &amp; T and Lucent were acquired by SBC and Alcatel respectively. Ten years ago, I practiced in the at &amp; T laboratory. At that time, everyone was in a high mood. The atmosphere of the laboratory was very similar to Google today. Many people's seats have this beautiful sunset photo on them. When I think about it now, it seems to herald the twilight of an empire.
When it comes to at &amp; T, almost everyone in the United States and even in the world knows it. The company was founded by Alexander, the father of the telephone? Bell was founded in 1877. The invention of telephone and the establishment of at &amp; T company realized the long-distance and real-time interactive communication of human for the first time (although telegraph appeared earlier than telephone, it is not the actual interactive communication), and benefited the common people. At &amp; T was the leader from the first day it was founded until the day it was acquired. But at &amp; T is expanding much more slowly than people today think. It took 15 years (1892) to expand its business from New York to Chicago in the middle of the United States (at that time, the call fee from New York to Chicago was two dollars a minute, and the purchasing power of one dollar at that time was equivalent to fifty dollars today). It's only ten cents a minute to make an international call in the United States today. Thirty eight years later (1915), its business expanded to the whole country (but the phone bill from New York to San Francisco was as high as seven dollars a minute). Forty eight years later, in 1927, at &amp; T's long-distance telephone service expanded to Europe.
In 1925, at &amp; T established its research and development organization Bell laboratory. Bell Laboratories is the largest and most successful private laboratory in history. As at &amp; T has made huge monopoly profits from the telecommunications industry, it has spent 3% of its output value on research and development of Bell Labs（ For a long time, the people of Bell laboratory always attract excellent scientists to work in the laboratory with the reason that they don't have to worry about money. This makes Bell laboratory not only a leader in the field of communication for a long time, but also ahead of the world in the fields of radio astronomy, transistor and semiconductor, computer science and so on. Besides the telephone itself, its famous inventions include radio telescope, transistor, electronic switch, UNIX operating system of computer, C language and so on. In addition, Bell Labs discovered the fluctuation of electrons, invented information theory, launched the first communication satellite and laid the first commercial optical fiber. For quite a long time, Bell laboratory is not only the preferred work unit for scientists in the field of information, but also the place for scholars in the field of basic research. Those who entered Bell Labs at that time were very lucky. If he is a character, he can become a leader in the industry, and even get the Nobel Prize, Shannon prize or Turing prize. Even ordinary researchers and engineers will have a good income, reliable retirement security and respected social status.
For a long time, at &amp; T monopolized the United States and (through Nortel) controlled the telephone business in Canada. In 1984, according to the requirements of the federal antitrust law, at &amp; T's local telephone business was divided into seven small bell companies according to the region. Seven small bell companies are engaged in local telephone business, while at &amp; T company is engaged in long-distance telephone business and manufacturing of communication equipment. Bell Labs was assigned to at &amp; T, and a part of Bell Labs, called bell core, was assigned to seven small bell companies. Soon after, the bell core, because seven monks had no water to drink, was soon put on the stage of history. This is of course a later story.
Now, most people think this is the beginning of at &amp; T's decline. But I don't think at &amp; T is hurting. In fact, in the next decade, at &amp; T's business has made great progress. Although it lost the local telephone service, as a communication equipment supplier, it is still the only supplier of local telephone communication equipment. Moreover, although there are two long-distance telephone competitors, MCI and sprint, at &amp; t still controls most of the U.S. market with considerable profits, which is enough to maintain the high R &amp; D expenses of Bell Labs, making at &amp; t still ahead of the world in communication and semiconductor technology. By 1994, its turnover had reached nearly 70 billion US dollars, roughly equivalent to the total turnover after its merger with SBC today.
This year, Dr. John Mayer, President of Bell Labs, led a large-scale delegation to visit China. President Jiang Zemin personally received him, which is enough to show that he attaches great importance to at &amp; T. The Chinese President's interview with the president of a subsidiary of a company may be unprecedented this time. At &amp; T was at its peak.
Since the separation in 1984 did not hurt at &amp; T, what caused its decline?
Chapter one the afterglow of Empire (at &amp; T)
In 1995, it was the peak of at &amp; T company. In the next ten years, it disintegrated and disappeared. It took at &amp; t a hundred years to climb to the top, but only ten years to go down（ Note: today's at &amp; T is a facility service company similar to the hydropower company, which was merged several times by Southwest bell company, one of the small bell companies in those years. All these companies are called utility company in the United States, and there is no technology to speak of.) In fact, in the past ten years since 1995, at &amp; T has had two great development opportunities: the network revolution around 2000 and the leap of wireless communication since the mid-1990s. Not only did at &amp; T not take advantage of the opportunity, it lost its life in these two changes.
At &amp; T has been developing healthily for 100 years. Although it has been subject to anti-monopoly law for one hundred years. However, the Justice Department of the U.S. government does not really want to kill it. Every anti-monopoly actually helps at &amp; T to prune its branches and cut its leaves, and then make it develop better. When we talk about at &amp; T company today, which is one of the only two companies separated by the anti-monopoly law in the United States, we have to look at how the monopoly position of at &amp; T is formed（ Note: the other company to be split is Mobil.)
When at &amp; T was founded, its telephone technology was protected by patents, so its development in the first decade was smooth sailing. However, as early as 1895, its patented technology was invalid. Overnight, more than 6000 telephone companies emerged in the United States. We will mention later that at the beginning of last century, there were countless automobile companies in the United States. Within 10 years, the number of telephone installed in the United States has increased from 2 million to 30 million. At this time, through leading technology and successful commercial acquisition, at &amp; T soon wiped out all its competitors. By the beginning of last century, at &amp; T had almost monopolized the U.S. telecommunications industry, and had a lot of business overseas. In 1916, at &amp; T became one of the 20 Dow Jones industrial indexes（ Note 1: the Dow Jones industrial index included 20 listed companies in the early stage, and then expanded to 30. These 30 companies are big companies in the pillar industries of the United States. As a result, Dow Jones has become a blue chip stock - BlueChips, because blue chips are the chips with the largest face value in gambling. Note 2: at &amp; T was in the Dow until it was replaced by SBC a few years ago. SBC inherited the name of at &amp; T after acquiring at &amp; T in 2005. But this at &amp; T is not what it used to be today, only Ge is still in the Dow.
But at &amp; T's troubles have also come with the company's development, and the U.S. Department of justice is eyeing it. In 1913, under the Justice Department's Kingsburg agreement, at &amp; T had to rein in its expansion. In 1925, it even separated the telecom business from Canada and focused on the U.S. market. The contraction was so crooked that it survived the Great Depression of 1929-1933. It can be imagined that if at &amp; T's stall had been too large, it would have been much less likely to escape the economic crisis. In fact, many companies in the Dow Jones industrial average have not escaped the economic crisis. After the great depression, at &amp; T recovered quickly. After World War II, the telephone penetration rate in the United States reached 50%. Bell Labs has achieved twice as much. What is most worth mentioning is the information theory put forward by Shannon, a gifted young scientist of Bell laboratory in World War II. Information theory is the foundation of modern communication. By the 1950s, at &amp; T had developed to the point where the Department of justice had to take charge of it. In 1956, at &amp; T and the Department of justice reached an agreement to once again restrict their actions. Antitrust law forces at &amp; T to improve its strength by scientific and technological progress. As a result, at &amp; T has consolidated its leading position in technology. In 1948, at &amp; t realized commercial microwave communication. In 1962, it launched the first commercial communication satellite. Although there are some small competitors, they can't shake the foundation of at &amp; T.
For a long time, the price of IDD calls in the United States was not determined by the market, but by the negotiation between at &amp; T and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The price was three dollars a minute. At &amp; T's method of calculating the price sounds reasonable - how much does it cost to lay optical cables and cables, how much does it cost to buy equipment, how much does it cost to research and develop, how much does it cost to hire an operator, and so on, so only three dollars a minute can keep the company from losing money. But in fact, by 2002, when the international toll dropped to 30 cents a minute on average, at &amp; t still had one third of its gross profit.
In the 1980s, the US Department of justice had to file an antitrust lawsuit against at &amp; T again. This time, the US government finally won the protracted lawsuit, which led to the first separation of at &amp; T in 1984. The antitrust case is just a pruning for at &amp; T. After pruning, at &amp; T has developed more healthily. Ten years later, at &amp; T is at its best again. At that time, at &amp; T not only in the traditional telephone business, but also in the emerging network and mobile communications, was in the leading position in the world.
Chapter one the afterglow of Empire (at &amp; T)
If we exclude the reasons for the decline of antitrust to at &amp; T, we have to look for the reasons from other places.
In 1995, at &amp; t reached a watershed. Since 1994, the U.S. economy has recovered in an all-round way. As can be seen from the trend chart of the stamp 500 index below, the U.S. stock market began to soar from 1995 until the end of 2000.
At this time, the executives of at &amp; T equipment manufacturing department made a short-sighted proposal to separate. Their reason